lembo straight on the northern tip of
Sulawesi this region has been a cent of
the evolution of marine life it's
scattered reefs and sandy seabed are a
kaleidoscope of improbable shapes and
colors
here hunters and hunted run an
evolutionary arms race developing ever
more unlikely ways of warning and
deceiving deceit starts with simple
camouflage hunter flounders are easy
enough to see when they're swimming but
what about the one that didn't move
the flounder is a master of disguise it
can change both the color and texture of
its skin in an instant
some animals disguise themselves as and
other species this looks like a sponge
but in fact it's a predatory frog fish
and this could be its prey a pipe fish
but a pipe fish looks like part of a
feather star so long as it stays within
its waving arms it's almost invisible
pipefish are related to seahorses and
like them
it's the males that carry the eggs in a
special brood pouch
a trumpet fish hides in the fronds of a
sea phone
but what it may not see is the pygmy
seahorse that lives there to these tiny
fish are not longer than a fingernail
they mimic every detail of the
background rather than just looking like
in other species some animals enlist
other creatures defenses for their own
protection the Colemans shrimp lives
safe among the venomous spines of a sea
urchin with its hard outer shell there's
no risk of it being stung
to survive in the stinging tentacles of
an enemies these clownfish have to take
extra precautions they steal a chemical
from the anenome and rub it onto their
skin so it doesn't recognize them as
prey they can live safely and what would
be lethal surroundings for other fish
in most tropical seas clownfish have an
enemies to themselves but here in
Indonesia all sorts of other fish are
developing the same immunity cardinal
fish for instance and hawk fish it's
beginning to get crowded
this is evolution in progress from here
The Hobbit could spread right across the
ocean